Hi,

The lemon pound cake went over quite well, but Dad thought it was too  
lemon-y.  So if I make it again, I think I'll just omit the lemon  
(the commentary with the recipe indicated she added the lemon, so I  
guess I can subtract it).  Anyway, if you want to try it, here's the  
recipe.
Love,
Mom

LEMON POUND CAKE

2 sticks unsalted butter (plus 1 T to grease pan)
1 1/2 cup minus 3 T flour (plus 1 T to dust pan)
1 tsp baking powder
1/2 tsp salt
1 1/4 cups sugar
2 T grated zest plus 2 tsp lemon juice (optional)
4 large eggs
1 1/2 tsp vanilla

1.  Adjust oven rack to middle position and heat oven to 350  
degrees.  Grease 9x5 loaf pan and dust, tapping out excess flour.

2.  In medium bowl, whisk together flour, baking powder and salt; set  
aside.

3.  In glass measuring cup, micro butter (covered with plastic wrap)  
at full power until melted (1 to 2 minutes).  Whisk melted butter  
thoroughly to reincorporate any separated milk solids.

4.  In food processor, process sugar and zest (optional) until  
combined, about five 1-second pulses.  Add lemon juice (optional),  
eggs and vanilla; process until combined, about 5 seconds.  With  
machine running, add melted butter through feed tube in steady stream  
(this should take about 20 seconds).  Transfer mixture to large  
bowl.  Sift flour mixture over eggs in three steps, whisking gently  
after each addition until just combined.

5.  Pour batter into prepared pan and bake 15 minutes.  Reduce oven  
temperature to 325 degrees and continue to bake until deep golden  
brown and skewer inserted in center comes out clean, about 35  
minutes, rotating pan halfway through baking time (at 25 minutes).   
Cool in pan for 10 minutes, then turn onto wire rack and brush on  
Lemon Glaze, if desired. Cool to room temperature, at least 1 hour.   
Cool cake can be wrapped tightly in plastic wrap and stored at room  
temperature for up to 5 days.

Lemon Glaze  (optional)

Brush this glaze onto the warm cake to give it a fresh sweet-tart  
lemon kick.

1/2 cup sugar
1/4 cup juice

While cake is cooling, bring sugar and lemon juice to boil in small  
saucepan, stirring occasionally to dissolve sugar.  Reduce heat to  
low and simmer until thickened slightly, about 2 minutes.  After  
poking holes in cake with toothpick, brush top and sides of cake with  
glaze.  Cool to room temperature.




