
for the hummous, the ingredients are chicpeas, olive oil, tahini,
garlic, salt, and lemon juice - thats it. the secret is go easy on the
tahini and olive oil - hummous should be creamy like mine was, not the
thick stodgy chunky stuff sold in supermarkets here! the secret to
getting the right consistency is using some of the water the chickpeas
are tinned in! this is like chickpea essence, so you can dilute the
mixture without diluting the flavour. also, blend everything except
the chickpeas first really well - then you know the garlic is well
blitzed before the chickpeas go in. i would say two lemons, three
cloves of garlic, half a cup of olive oil, tablespoon of tahini, to
two tins of chickpeas, and 2/3 a tin of chickpea water as an
approximate estimate!

the muhammara was roasted red peppers, lemon juice, pomegranite
molasses, walnuts, breadcrumbs, olive oil, garlic, dried chilli
flakes, salt, ground cumin, and i added rose water, but that's really
optional. roast the peppers long and slow till they are charred a bit
and let them cool in a plastic bag so you can take the skins off
easily. go easy on the lemon juice and pomegranite mollasses, or itll
get too sour. blitz them with the walnuts, olive oil, garlic and
chilli flakes before adding the peppers - they shouldnt be processed
too much. blitz in the peppers and the breadcrumbs and cumin powder
(go easy on that - it is a powerful spice!)

the vine leaves are a considerable undertaking! there are many ways to
make them - mine were more turkish leaning then arabic or greek, but i
prefer them that way.

so: first the meat! in a big round cooking pot with highsides, brown
one big onion, add 5 cloves chopped garlic till that softens too. add
a kilo of minced beef and lamb (500g each) along with 2 chopped
tomatoes, a tablespoon of all spice, a tablespoon of cinnamon, salt
and pepper to taste. fry on a medium heat - the spices shouldnt
burn. liquid will come out of the meat - keep frying even though the
meat is cooked until it all gets reabsorbed into the meat and it
starts sticking to the bottom of the pan. remove meat and set aside.

next: the rice! pour 1 and a quarter bowls of water into the same pan
and add a chicken stock cube. bring to the boil and add a bowl of
short grain stuffing rice (there's a special egyptian kind, short fat
grains, that works really well for mid east stuffings). bring back to
the boil, immediately take heat to lowest setting, cover and leave for
10 minutes, then shut off the heat and leave for another 10
minutes. rice should be perfectly steamed now! let it cool, stir in
the meat. add rasins and sultanas, dry toast some pine nuts in a pan
(move the pan around so they dont burn - should take about 5 minutes -
you can smell when theyre ready!) and add those too. add 2 cups each
of chopped flat leaf parsley, dill, and mint (remove leaves from the
stems first). stir all together - now your stuffing is done!

then: the leaves! get some pickled vine leaves and leave them to soak
overnight in cold water to remove most of the brine. take a vine leaf,
lay it on a board in front of you, veins side up, put a spoonful of
stuffing in it and roll it up tight - this takes some practice - look
on the net for pictures on how to do it! in the same big round pan,
carpet the bottom of the pan with a thin layer of leaves that are too
torn or small to use and/or unused herb stems. then start putting the
stuffed vine leaves on top around the circumference, slowly covering
the entire pan with them. when the layer is finished, chop lemons into
slices and arrange those all over the layer, pour over a cup of olive
oil, and cover with a light layer of more broken leaves. the layer
shouldnt be inpenetrable! there should be enough gaps for water and
steam to get through. then do another layer and so on until you run
out of leaves or the dish is full. then pour in a big bowl of

 stock - you are going to braise them, so all the layers shouldnt be
 submerged, only like the bottom one and half, say. then loads of
 lemon juice, put a plate upside down on top and push down a bit to
 squash everything down tight a little, leave the plate in, put the
 lid on, and gently simmer on the stove for like 2 hours. that's it!
 theyre done.

good luck! let me know how they turn out if you try them!

Mikal
